So we realize, this approach that produces
our objects towards one in user1,
one in user2, it creates a big issue.
Our functions are yeah, hooray, are
available right on our objects, success.
But that she got copies of them,
they're all the same function And
if you've got a thousand functions,
you've got a copy of each of those
functions on every single user object.
This is gonna take millions of lines
of memory, when we don't need.
We just have a single
version of that function.
What would be our solution?
Store our increment function In just
one object as imagined we could
sort of store it in just one object
let's call it I don't know store or
function let's call it function store and
in that one object
supposed there we were to.
Store the increment functionality.
The increment functionality,
and somehow if I didn't and
then not store it on
each of these objects.
Keep these object clear.
And somehow if I were to find On
my user tool, my user1 object,
the increment function,
somehow JavaScript would know to go and
look instead in this function store where
I have my single copy of that function.
Store the increment function
in just one object and
have the interpreter When we do
something like User 2 dot increment,
look up at User 2,
there's no increment function on it.
We don't want a unique increment
function on User 2 objects.
But instead look up to this object
shared to check if increments there.
It is.
And run that functionality.
That's going to be our,
what about that as an approach?
Approach, all together if all you believe
good approach?
>> Yes.
>> Controlling personality.
All right.
Good but how can we make that link?
What's that famous word?
People like to shout out words and
mine might not be right Or
how might we make that link?
>> Bond.
>> Bond, okay, is having a bond,
what sort of bond?
>> A reference.
>> Reference,
what's the special word?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> No
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's got as many words as you like.
>> Back pack.
>> Back pack no,
back pack what's that favorite word
you heard about in JavaScript?
>> Prototype.
>> Prototype
>> Exactly, good job.
We're gonna see that all play out, though.
Using the prototypal nature of
JavaScript solution to in full,
we are gonna somehow use a.
I said that we've seen all
the features of JavaScript.
There's one more.
It's called its prototypal nature,
which is that,
when I call a method on an object I
first go look at that object if I don't
find on that object the method i don't
panic I use the prototypal nature
of java script to look up to the next
object up to the prototype chain
the next object that I bonded this
object to here we call it function so
and I can use the functionality
that's stored there.
The single version.
We're going to walk
through this line by line.
See it all play out in full.
But know that's fundamentally
what we're doing.
We're going to somehow make a bond to
a shared function store in which all
the functions that we'd want
to have available on user two.
We want to be able to
do this dot increment.
That's always our goal.
But we don't want to have
the increment function on user two.
So we're going to use a special prototypal
nature, a special bonus feature of Java.
I think this is the last one.
This is the last true feature
of Java Script that lets us,
when we access user two and
don't find increments.
Go look at this function store
through this special hidden bond.
You see how this hidden bond works,
but first,
let's walk through this code line by line.